# A world of Houses, Sheds, and Gardens

Your house is `private`, only you (as in your family) can enter but
anyone can look through your windows and see exactly what you have
inside. Indeed, people can admire and appreciate the size of your
house, and often estimate the amount of stuff you have. But do not be
fooled! Some houses are disorganized and contain extra padding.

Reaching inside to peek at your stuff is difficult without proper
access, only the most reinterpreted burglars know how to unlawfully
get inside. Occasionally, however, you might freely give away access
to your house to a close friend or relative. They have full access to
your house, even if they only came there to water your mutable
flowers.

Some houses are tall. Like, really tall, encapsulating multiple homes,
similar to some kind of apartment complex. They are hierarchical in
nature and usually not particularly wide. It is trendy to build high,
but there are exceptions. The base of any apartment (not to be
confused with the basement, overlooked by many developers) is often
referred to as the root. Despite its spacial naming, many people
confuse 'up' with 'down' while moving between the apartment floors (I
can only guess that those people are very poor with locality.)

Some people (esp. language inventors) seem to think that roots need to
be empty, that an apartment complex with more than two non-empty roots
is somehow bad or even dangerous. "Apartments on stilts" we call them,
silly to their looks, but actually quite useful in some remote areas
of the world, especially when combined with the empty apartment root
optimization, when the address of the root is the same as the
apartment above it.

Your shed is `protected`, by you and your neighbors in the apartment
you live in. Although your neighbors are their own entities, they are
strangely connected to you in the kind of way only close communities
inherently are. Indeed, for some curious reason, not only you but also
any neighbor living above you have access to your shed, so be very
careful about who moves in! It is easy to bypass this kind of
protection. Although sheds can be tall too, they alas often collapse
due to lack of sane architectural structure.

Your garden is `public`, free for any passers by to do precisely
anything they want to do. It is outside of your control, as all that
is needed to access your garden is the address or to find someone who
can point the way to it. All kinds of creatures live out here, lots of
bugs too! Never put your invariants outside as they are doomed to be
found asserted down the road.

Most people think that it is good (no, necessary even) to put
functions out here. These functions have access to anything inside
your shed and house, and the only reason people think this is safe
seem to be that they got to choose the functions themselves, but guess
what, your colleagues can also put functions in your garden and if
they are reckless they will cause a fire somewhere that you have to
deal with!  But I digress, having functions in your garden is your
choice. Some people never put functions there, but rather sprinkle
them globally around the world. Variables, however, are treated
differently. Only crazy people walk around with their variable out for
others to see, best to comment those out! Funny how some people think
it is better to have them in the garden instead.

Not all functions are easy to predict. Some apartment complexes have
functions at their root such that when used, it will cause a reaction
in any number of apartments above it, not only at the root. Sometimes
even higher level floor apartments have functions attached to
them. How anyone is supposed to reach out and call them is beyond
me. Only the most architectural among us can keep track of this mess.

But I wonder, "is this the only way of life?" After all, a few people
do not even believe in houses and sheds. In their world everything is
a garden. They focus on the beauty and the natural performance of the
world, writing single instructions that operate on multiple data. It
is a power understood by few and cannot be easily used when
constrained by houses and sheds. "Homeless" we call these people
because they struggle to find a job that shares their peaceful world
view, free of the constraints of unnecessary barriers, free to
manipulate the raw data itself, free to choose their own way in life.
